README.md, before:

<div align="center" id="top"> 
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038121/gopher_jftcse.png" alt="Go-Palette" />
  &#xa0;
</div>

<h1 align="center">Go-Palette 🎨</h1>


[![Build Status](https://github.com/abusomani/go-palette/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/abusomani/go-palette/actions)
[![Github top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/abusomani/go-palette)](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/abusomani/go-palette)
[![Github language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/abusomani/go-palette)](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/abusomani/go-palette)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)](https://github.com/abusomani/go-palette/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/abusomani/go-palette)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/abusomani/go-palette)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/abusomani/go-palette.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/abusomani/go-palette)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/abusomani/go-palette/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/abusomani/go-palette?branch=main)

Elegant and convenient style definitions using ANSI colors. 
Fully compatible and wraps the `fmt` [library](https://pkg.go.dev/fmt) for nice terminal layouts. 


<div align="center" id="top"> 
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038121/go-palette-example_q5w01k.png" alt="Output of running the example written using Go-palette" />
</div>

## Supported Colors & Formats

### Standard colors

![standard colors](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/standard-colors_kbxyyi.png)

The following colors are supported to be used by their names for both foreground and background as shown in [Example using color names](#example-using-color-names)

| Color Name    | Color Code  |
| :---          |    :----:  |
| Black         |   0   |
| Red           |   1   |
| Green         |   2   |
| Yellow        |   3   |
| Blue          |   4   |
| Magenta       |   5   |
| Cyan          |   6   |
| White         |   7   |
| BrightBlack   |   8   |
| BrightRed     |   9   |
| BrightGreen   |   10  |
| BrightYellow  |   11  |
| BrightBlue    |   12  |
| BrightMagenta |   13  |
| BrightCyan    |   14  |
| BrightWhite   |   15  |

#### Standard colors used as foreground as well as background
![standard colors used as foreground as well as background](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/standard-colors-fg-bg_vxr67y.png)


### Supported Foreground Palette
The following palette is supported as foreground/text colors. The numbers represent the color-codes which can be used as shown in [Example using color codes](#example-using-color-codes).

![complete supported foreground palette](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038121/foreground-palette_klb2o4.png)

### Supported Background Palette

The following palette is supported as background colors. The numbers represent the color-codes which can be used as shown in [Example using color codes](#example-using-color-codes).

![complete supported background palette](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038122/background-palette_neiykd.png)

### Supported Text Formats

The following text formats are supported.
- Reset
- Bold
- Dim
- Italic
- Underline
- SlowBlink
- Hidden
- Strikethrough

![supported text formats](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/special-effects_bwuurg.gif)


## Installation

```
go get github.com/abusomani/go-palette
```



## Usage

After installing the `go-palette` package, we start using it the following way.

### Import

A very useful feature of Go’s import statement are aliases. A common use case for import aliases is to provide a shorter alternative to a library’s package name.

In this example, we save ourselves having to type `palette` everytime we want to call one of the library’s functions, we just use `pal` instead.

```
import (
    pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)
```

#### Example using Color names

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithBackground(pal.Color(pal.BrightYellow)), pal.WithForeground(pal.Black))
	p.Println("This text is going to be in black color with a yellow background.")
}

```
**Output**

![Code output](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038119/code-output_lup9j1.png)


#### Example using Color codes

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
	// We can use color codes from the palette to set as foreground and background colors
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithBackground(pal.Color(11)), pal.WithForeground(0))
	p.Println("This text is going to be in black color with a yellow background.")
}

```

**Output**

![Code output](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038119/code-output_lup9j1.png)


#### Example using Special effects

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Bold}))
	p.Println("Bold")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Dim}))
	p.Println("Dim")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Italic}))
	p.Println("Italic")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Underline}))
	p.Println("Underline")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.SlowBlink}))
	p.Println("SlowBlink")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Hidden}))
	p.Print("Hidden")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithDefaults())
	p.Println("<-Hidden")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Strikethrough}))
	p.Println("Strikethrough")
}

```

### Flush

Flush resets the Palette options with default values and disables the Palette.

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
	// We can use color codes from the palette to set as foreground and background colors
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithBackground(pal.BrightMagenta), pal.WithForeground(pal.Black))
	p.Println("This text is going to be in black color with a bright magenta background.")
	p.Flush()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
}

```
**Output**

![Flush output](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/flush-code-output_ejrzoh.png)

## Limitations

### Windows
Go-Palette provides ANSI colors only. Windows does not support ANSI out of the box. To toggle the ANSI color support follow the steps listed in this [superuser thread](https://superuser.com/questions/413073/windows-console-with-ansi-colors-handling).

### Different behaviours in special effects
Go-Palette provides styled support using ANSI Color codes through escape sequences. This varies between different Terminals based on its setting. Refer [ANSI Escape Codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code) for more details.


## License
Licensed under [MIT](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Mentioned in awesome-go badge

README.md, after:

<div align="center" id="top"> 
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038121/gopher_jftcse.png" alt="Go-Palette" />
  &#xa0;
</div>

<h1 align="center">Go-Palette 🎨</h1>


[![Build Status](https://github.com/abusomani/go-palette/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/abusomani/go-palette/actions)
[![Github top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/abusomani/go-palette)](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/abusomani/go-palette)
[![Github language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/abusomani/go-palette)](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/abusomani/go-palette)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)](https://github.com/abusomani/go-palette/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/abusomani/go-palette)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/abusomani/go-palette)
[![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/abusomani/go-palette.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/abusomani/go-palette)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/abusomani/go-palette/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/abusomani/go-palette?branch=main)
[![Mentioned in Awesome Go](https://awesome.re/mentioned-badge-flat.svg)](https://github.com/avelino/awesome-go#advanced-console-uis)

Elegant and convenient style definitions using ANSI colors. 
Fully compatible and wraps the `fmt` [library](https://pkg.go.dev/fmt) for nice terminal layouts. 


<div align="center" id="top"> 
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038121/go-palette-example_q5w01k.png" alt="Output of running the example written using Go-palette" />
</div>

## Supported Colors & Formats

### Standard colors

![standard colors](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/standard-colors_kbxyyi.png)

The following colors are supported to be used by their names for both foreground and background as shown in [Example using color names](#example-using-color-names)

| Color Name    | Color Code  |
| :---          |    :----:  |
| Black         |   0   |
| Red           |   1   |
| Green         |   2   |
| Yellow        |   3   |
| Blue          |   4   |
| Magenta       |   5   |
| Cyan          |   6   |
| White         |   7   |
| BrightBlack   |   8   |
| BrightRed     |   9   |
| BrightGreen   |   10  |
| BrightYellow  |   11  |
| BrightBlue    |   12  |
| BrightMagenta |   13  |
| BrightCyan    |   14  |
| BrightWhite   |   15  |

#### Standard colors used as foreground as well as background
![standard colors used as foreground as well as background](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/standard-colors-fg-bg_vxr67y.png)


### Supported Foreground Palette
The following palette is supported as foreground/text colors. The numbers represent the color-codes which can be used as shown in [Example using color codes](#example-using-color-codes).

![complete supported foreground palette](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038121/foreground-palette_klb2o4.png)

### Supported Background Palette

The following palette is supported as background colors. The numbers represent the color-codes which can be used as shown in [Example using color codes](#example-using-color-codes).

![complete supported background palette](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038122/background-palette_neiykd.png)

### Supported Text Formats

The following text formats are supported.
- Reset
- Bold
- Dim
- Italic
- Underline
- SlowBlink
- Hidden
- Strikethrough

![supported text formats](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/special-effects_bwuurg.gif)

## Prerequisites

A go module where you want to integrate go-palette. To create one, follow this [guide](https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/create-module).

## Installation

```
go get github.com/abusomani/go-palette
```


## Usage

After installing the `go-palette` package, we start using it the following way.

### Import

A very useful feature of Go’s import statement are aliases. A common use case for import aliases is to provide a shorter alternative to a library’s package name.

In this example, we save ourselves having to type `palette` everytime we want to call one of the library’s functions, we just use `pal` instead.

```
import (
    pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)
```

#### Example using Color names

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithBackground(pal.Color(pal.BrightYellow)), pal.WithForeground(pal.Black))
	p.Println("This text is going to be in black color with a yellow background.")
}

```
**Output**

![Code output](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038119/code-output_lup9j1.png)


#### Example using Color codes

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
	// We can use color codes from the palette to set as foreground and background colors
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithBackground(pal.Color(11)), pal.WithForeground(0))
	p.Println("This text is going to be in black color with a yellow background.")
}

```

**Output**

![Code output](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038119/code-output_lup9j1.png)


#### Example using Special effects

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Bold}))
	p.Println("Bold")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Dim}))
	p.Println("Dim")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Italic}))
	p.Println("Italic")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Underline}))
	p.Println("Underline")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.SlowBlink}))
	p.Println("SlowBlink")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Hidden}))
	p.Print("Hidden")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithDefaults())
	p.Println("<-Hidden")
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithSpecialEffects([]pal.Special{pal.Strikethrough}))
	p.Println("Strikethrough")
}

```

### Flush

Flush resets the Palette options with default values and disables the Palette.

```
package main

import (
	pal "github.com/abusomani/go-palette/palette"
)

func main() {
	p := pal.New()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
	// We can use color codes from the palette to set as foreground and background colors
	p.SetOptions(pal.WithBackground(pal.BrightMagenta), pal.WithForeground(pal.Black))
	p.Println("This text is going to be in black color with a bright magenta background.")
	p.Flush()
	p.Println("This text is going to be in default color.")
}

```
**Output**

![Flush output](https://res.cloudinary.com/dahkenlmo/image/upload/v1678038120/flush-code-output_ejrzoh.png)

## Limitations

### Windows
Go-Palette provides ANSI colors only. Windows does not support ANSI out of the box. To toggle the ANSI color support follow the steps listed in this [superuser thread](https://superuser.com/questions/413073/windows-console-with-ansi-colors-handling).

### Different behaviours in special effects
Go-Palette provides styled support using ANSI Color codes through escape sequences. This varies between different Terminals based on its setting. Refer [ANSI Escape Codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code) for more details.


## License
Licensed under [MIT](./LICENSE)
